[website] Open Staff Engineer role for Pigment CSS (#42531)
mui/material-ui: docs/pages/careers/staff-engineer-pigment-css.md

- **Be a solver**. You will dig deep into arbitrarily complex problems and find an appropriate path forward. Some focus on a given area for long periods, others bounce from hotspot to hotspot as guided by organizational leadership.

### The best parts of this job

- **You'll be at the cutting edge of application development** working on one of the fastest-growing CSS-in-JS libraries on the market.
- **You'll be part of an active, open, friendly community** of developers who are excited about building awesome applications.
- **Your role will be key to making MUI's libraries the go-to UI solutions** for building applications, websites, and design systems that do not have to trade performance for a great developer experience.

### The worst parts of this job

- **Shifting context.**
  You will necessarily have to shift context and dive into a different feature before the current one is done.
  It may even be in an area of the codebase you're unfamiliar with or don't have a ton of understanding about.
  It's fun, rewarding work, but it can be very challenging.
- **We move quickly but don't sacrifice quality**.

>   We ship early, often, and quickly. You may not be initially comfortable with the cadence with which we ship high-quality features and improvements to end-users. By doing so, we sacrifice on solving each problem 100% in exchange for fast feedback. Solving 50-70% of the issue with quality should be enough for any given iteration. Our users quickly tell us when we haven't pushed a solution far enough.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  We ship early, often, and quickly. You may not be initially comfortable with the cadence with which we ship high-quality features and improvements to end-users. By doing so, we sacrifice solving each problem 100% in exchange for fast feedback. Solving 50-70% of the issue is often enough. Our users quickly tell us when we haven't pushed it far enough.
```

- **MUI has large codebases**. You may bang your head against the wall at times and then write tests to assist future you.
  The work you will be doing is somewhat unique and idiosyncratic. You probably have not had a similar role before.

> - **In open-source, you're faced with a nonstop stream of bug reports and support requests**. That means you need to develop an intuition for when to ignore something, and when to dig in further.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **In open-source, you're faced with a nonstop stream of bug reports and support requests**. That means you need to develop an intuition for when to ignore something and when to dig in further.
```

> # Staff Engineer - Pigment CSS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Staff Engineer — Pigment CSS
```

Beyond the core libraries, MUI X offers advanced components like the Data Grid, Date and Time Pickers, and Charts, for more complex user interactions and data visualization needs.

We're also making ambitious moves to incorporate our full suite of components into Toolpad, a low-code admin builder tool for assembling full-stack apps faster than ever.

Learn more about MUI's products in this blog post: [An introduction to the MUI ecosystem](https://mui.com/blog/mui-product-comparison/).

## The culture

MUI is a fully remote company with a team that spans the globe.
The majority of our work is asynchronous, and we rely on written communication to collaborate.
We're radically transparent: nearly all of our work happens in public.
Each contributor has the freedom to decide how and when they work, and that work is primarily self-directed: it's your responsibility to define and complete your own tasks in a timely manner.

For additional details about the culture, you can check our [careers](https://mui.com/careers/) and [about](https://mui.com/about/) pages and also our [public Handbook](https://mui-org.notion.site/Handbook-f086d47e10794d5e839aef9dc67f324b).

## Why we're hiring

> The Pigment CSS team is just starting to take shape now, and we have big goals for the next few years. We need experienced people to work in an IC capacity, to research, spec, build, document, and ship high-quality, zero-runtime CSS-in-JS library with a focus on performance and great developer experience.
> 
> Overall, both our open-source community and our premium products are growing fast (x2 YoY).
> We need talented people to keep that going!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The React ecosystem is trending toward migrating away from CSS-in-JS, initially for performance considerations, and now because of a struggle to keep up with the latest React 19 features.

To thrive, Material UI needs a strong styling engine to build on top of since the point of Material UI is to provide pre-designed components with the same stack that developers would want to use if Material UI didn't exist.
Developers adopt Material UI because it takes a lot of time to build these components, and it also requires a lot of design skills that most don't have.

We started the work on Pigment CSS about a year ago to solve these problems.
We believe that CSS-in-JS is still the best API and DX to write style.
We recently [announced an early alpha release](https://mui.com/blog/introducing-pigment-css/) of Pigment CSS. 
We believe that we had enough [market](https://npm-stat.com/charts.html?package=@stylexjs/stylex,@pigment-css/react) [validation](https://x.com/JoshWComeau/status/1767224693575053692) to create a dedicated team on this project.
```

Reviewer: Iterating on the above with a few considerations:

```suggestion
We believe CSS-in-JS is the best styling API with the best developer experience for writing CSS. 
That's why we've used it in Material UI since v4 (back then with JSS and Emotion in v5).
However, there are key challenges we need to overcome to keep using this stack: improving performance and compatibility with React 19 features, including React Server Components.
That's why, about a year ago, we started to work on Pigment CSS!
We recently released an early alpha version, [introduced at React Conf 2024](https://mui.com/blog/introducing-pigment-css/), for which we're seeing [great adoption](https://npm-stat.com/charts.html?package=@stylexjs/stylex,@pigment-css/react) and [community validation](https://x.com/JoshWComeau/status/1767224693575053692).

This is just the beginning, though. 
There's so much to do to make Pigment CSS a reliable and mature option for developers looking for a next-generation CSS-in-JS styling engine.
We're well-positioned to make this happen, so we're looking for a talented developer to join the team and help us get further beyond!
```

- "To thrive, Material UI needs a strong styling engine to build on top of..." we could argue CSS Modules or Tailwind CSS are valid, available, and "strong" options (that solve the performance and RSC problems). However, we're not using it because of the further point: "We believe CSS-in-JS is still the best API." So, I think we should kickstart with that. That's why we're working on Pigment—otherwise, we'd use something already available and solve the existing problems.
- Having a full paragraph mentioning Material UI makes it feel like Pigment's purpose is to serve Material UI. I don't feel like we should go with that framing. It misses out on a big opportunity to capture _many_ folks who are not into Material at all but are desperate for a styled-components evolution (like Josh).
- On a more practical note, I think we should avoid having links sit on just one word, like "market" and "validation". At least two but ideally three, to make it easier to click and see.

Reviewer 2: 1. 👍
2. It feels like we are leaning too much on the opposite side of the coin with this version. I would see us connecting the dots with Material UI. It's the primary objective in https://mui-org.notion.site/Pigment-CSS-Road-to-v1-04d5697d7bba4f8385f8423a57ae0f23. Maybe we should share this page on the job offer.

I think we tend to forget about this: "the point of Material UI is to provide pre-designed components with the same stack that developers would want to use if Material UI didn't exist." even JSS delivered on this, to some extent. Seing a Vue, Angular, or Svelte versions of Shadcn and Radix reinforce this point. So, I think that we miss a bit of context for the candidate to connect the dots to how this matters for building a styling library. Like we can sell this in reverse, no styling library would take if it doesn't allow to build a great design system. The two are intertwined. 

3. 👍 this was the lazy solution 😁

Reviewer: > _to provide pre-designed components with the same stack that developers would want to use if Material UI didn't exist._

This part here makes me confused... like, what is the "same stack devs would want to use if Material UI didn't exist"? Is it CSS-in-JS? And how would we connect that to the fact that Material does exist?

In any case, here's a v2 that sort of connects Material UI and Pigment a bit more, but not super heavily:

```suggestion
We believe CSS-in-JS is the best styling API with the best developer experience for writing CSS. 
We've used it in Material UI since v1 (back then, with JSS, and currently with Emotion in v5).
However, there are key challenges we need to overcome to keep using this stack: improving performance and compatibility with React 19 features, including React Server Components.
That's why, about a year ago, we started to work on Pigment CSS!
We recently released an early alpha version, [introduced at React Conf 2024](https://mui.com/blog/introducing-pigment-css/), for which we're seeing [great adoption](https://npm-stat.com/charts.html?package=@stylexjs/stylex,@pigment-css/react) and [community validation](https://x.com/JoshWComeau/status/1767224693575053692).

This is just the beginning, though. 
There's so much to do to make Pigment CSS a reliable and mature option for the future of Material UI and for many developers looking for a next-generation CSS-in-JS styling engine.
We're well-positioned to make this happen, so we're looking for a talented developer to join the team and help us get further beyond!
```
Also removed the repeated "That's why...".

Reviewer 2: This can work 👍. It's not exactly why we are working on this, I think Material UI is more first and Pigment CSS second, but it sounds more likely to attract the right people.

> This part here makes me confused... like, what is the "same stack devs would want to use if Material UI didn't exist"? Is it CSS-in-JS? And how would we connect that to the fact that Material does exist?

I think that Material UI exists today/fills a gap because of inertia.

Like, why would someone start a new project with Material UI today? I can only think of:

- The components depth / MUI X (~15% of the use) (improving)
- The depth of the documentation and Stack Overflow answers (improving)
- Designers insist on using Material Design (declining)
- The developer is used to it, no time to learn something new (declining)
- The manager doesn't want to risk it, go with the most used (declining)

Because otherwise, the main driver: the aesthetic is outdated. The second driver: the customizability is perceived a challenging. The performance is not great. You can't continue with headless components once the design system is mature enough.

I think that's why we see the community shrinking. New developers, the ones that are replacing the old ones, would rather build their design system with CSS Modules or Tailwind CSS than Emotion, so pick something that does it. 

Hence, I conclude inertial. I have seen it take 12 to 18 months to see the true impact of work done, and then people change slowly, so it takes many months to see user behavior change.

- **Shape the product**. You will be laser-focused on the end goal. It's not about solving technical challenges but about the problem solved for the users.
- **Keep technical debt in check**. You will make sure we can keep shipping features at a reasonable pace, align the team on "one way" of doing things and make sure engineers follow the conventions.
- **Be a solver**. You will dig deep into arbitrarily complex problems and find an appropriate path forward. Some focus on a given area for long periods, others bounce from hotspot to hotspot as guided by organizational leadership.

### The best parts of this job

- **You'll be at the cutting edge of application development** — working on one of the fastest-growing CSS-in-JS libraries on the market.
- **You'll be part of an active, open, friendly community** of developers that are excited about building awesome applications.
- **Your role will be key to making MUI the go-to UI solution** for building applications, websites, and design systems that does not have to trade performance for a great developer expirience.

> ### The worst parts of this job

Reviewer: I have removed these sections from the Docs-infra role — I feel like we could be simpler and more to-the-point: https://mui.com/careers/react-engineer-docs-infra/

  You will necessarily have to shift context and dive into a different feature before the current one is done.
  It may even be in an area of the codebase you're unfamiliar with or don't have a ton of understanding about.
  It's fun, rewarding work, but it can be very challenging.
- **We move quickly but don't sacrifice quality**.
  We ship early, often, and quickly. You may not be initially comfortable with the cadence with which we ship high-quality features and improvements to end-users. By doing so, we sacrifice on solving each problem 100% in exchange for fast feedback. Solving 50-70% of the issue with quality should be enough for any given iteration. Our users quickly tell us when we haven't pushed a solution far enough.
- **MUI has a large codebase**. You may bang your head against the wall at times, and then write tests to assist future you 😌.
  The work you will be doing is somewhat unique and idiosyncratic. You probably have not had a similar role before.
- **In open-source, you're faced with a nonstop stream of bug reports and support requests**. That means you need to develop an intuition for when to ignore something, and when to dig in further.

> ## Who we're looking for

Reviewer: We can also be much simpler here! I removed the bold "titles" and just straight up added the required skills on Docs-infra role, as an example: https://mui.com/careers/react-engineer-docs-infra/#who-were-looking-for — that should be enough, I believe

Author: Should we aim in consistency of how we present the roles? We have template for starting, although we may change something in a particular job ad, all other roles would still be created differently.

For example, I changed the writing around the products in https://github.com/mui/material-ui/pull/42189/files, when it gets approved, I will apply this on the template. I think this is the only way to keep it consistent (if that's our goal).

Reviewer: Yeah, definitely aim for consistency! We can keep updating the template as we see fit 👍

Reviewer 2: I don't know. More details look OK. And since it's more verbose, we need a bold part for the quick job post readers. So 👍 to keep this as is on my end.

We're looking for someone with strong core JavaScript skills. More important than specific technical skills though is that you're a strong problem solver who loves to learn. Details matter to you.

> ### Required

Reviewer: Should we be more specific about, maybe, experience with bundlers and some of the concrete tasks we need for Pigment? I feel like the things included in "Expertise in the modern JavaScript ecosystem" are too broad.

Reviewer 2: True, though, I don't have ideas on my end on how to do this. Maybe @brijeshb42 would have.

Reviewer 3: Let me prepare a statement and share internally in the channel first.

Author: > Expertise in the modern JavaScript ecosystem

This is the one and most important requirement in my opinion for this role. I am open to suggestions

Reviewer 3: Do we also want to put in Rust, given Turbopack/SWC and now Rolldown are written in Rust.
Their core plugin authoring system will also be in Rust. The equivalent JS plugin authoring will support limited functionality.

Reviewer 2: I have tried this:

> - **Expertise in the modern JavaScript ecosystem**. Pigment CSS is built on the shoulders of giants, you need to use technologies such as TypeScript, Node.js, Babel, Rust, or SWC.

- **A track record of demonstrating an eye for product and solving real-world user problems**. If you have a knack for solving problems at the root cause, shipping beautiful user interfaces and intuitive APIs, we want you on our team.
- **Experience building and shipping production code in a team setting** with a passion for writing tested, performant, and high-quality code.
- **Strong written and verbal communication skills**.
  As part of the team, you'll interface both directly and indirectly with community members and enterprise customers, and contribute to user documentation. Clear communication is fundamental in creating intuitive and compelling resources.
- **Ability to dive into complex problems**.
  You should be able to quickly assess, understand, and iterate upon aspects of our codebase.
- **Ready and willing to ask and answer questions**.
  If you're comfortable saying you're unsure, asking for help; but equally reaching out to assist others, you'll be an incredible addition to our team. We thrive because of continuous learning. First-time mistakes should be celebrated, not blamed.

> - **Avoid monolithic deliverables**.
>   You scope and stage your work into well-defined milestones to ship.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

I'd cut this one — it seems like too much of a practical guideline. If we'd like to keep it, I'd probably change to something along the lines of "You have a great sense of project management" because that's what it essentially is about: iterating fast, incrementally, with clear milestones

Reviewer 2: Seeing this in the job offer makes me feel a bit like it's helpful to differentiate Junior/Mid level to Senior. But if the role is Staff, we need to emphasize on what sets Staff appart as we might see a lot of Senior apply.

Reviewer 2: I have tried this:

> - **Leadership skills**. You will help build and collaborate with the community. You will guide and mentor contributors, steering the community in the right direction.

- **Past work with front-end infrastructure**.
  Perhaps you've written a Babel plugin, or even worked on a problem similar to the ones Pigment CSS aims to address.
  It would be great if you could address this in your cover letter!

### Nice to have (but not required)

- **You've maintained an active repository before**.
  Maybe you've helped maintain a popular open-source repository, or perhaps you've worked on internal repositories that saw contributions from multiple teams.
  Previous experience with highly active repository workflows is a definite plus for this role.

> - **You have contributed code to some CSS-in-JS library**. A history of contributing to some CSS-in-JS library is a plus.

Reviewer: This should come first, imo

Reviewer 2: It feels like specific knowledge can be gained a LOT faster than product engineering and technical skills. I'm saying this because I have many people who had one successful project have multiple ones on unreleased product engineering spaces. So to me, the point of this line is to have people who demonstrate that they cared about the problem space (we don't care about the knowledge they gained, no much).

So the order between the two depends on what we want to prioritize between:

- high product engineering skills
- low drive to solve this problem

vs.

- low product engineering skills
- high drive to solve this problem

I think the former is better, someone applying is already a signal that he cares about this problem.

Reviewer 3: I agree that this is very specific. CSS-in-JS itself is a solved problem and we can just re-use those. Everything else is covered through `Expertise in the modern JavaScript ecosystem`.
This leaves us with experience writing Babel/Webpack/Rollup plugins or any other equivalent work with bundlers.

## Benefits and compensation

Competitive compensation depending on the profile and location.
We are ready to pay top market rates for a person that can clearly exceed the role's expectations.
You can find the other perks & benefits on the [careers](https://mui.com/careers/#perks-and-benefits) page.

## How to apply

> [Apply now for this position 📮](https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/MUI/73e07586-d3aa-43b3-bfef-8eec52884e2a/application?utm_source=ZNRrPGBkqO)

Author: TODO: Update the link

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Apply now for this position 📮](https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/MUI/673f3178-56f4-47fd-bd2b-6dcba57758aa/application?utm_source=ZNRrPGBkqO)
```

# Staff Engineer — Pigment CSS

<p class="description">Research, build, document, and help ship a next-gen zero-runtime CSS-in-JS library with a focus on performance and great developer experience.</p>

## Details of the role

- **Location**: Remote (preference for UTC-6 to UTC+5).
- **Type of work**: Full-time (contractor or employee [depending on circumstances](https://mui-org.notion.site/Hiring-FAQ-64763b756ae44c37b47b081f98915501#494af1f358794028beb4b7697b5d3102)).
- **Level**: [5 or above](https://mui-org.notion.site/Engineering-levels-25b2fba9dd1f4b43a1b28f47f0170f23).
- We're a **remote** company, we prefer asynchronous communication over meetings.

## The company

MUI's story began in 2014 with Material UI, the most successful React implementation of Google's Material Design.
Today, Material UI stands as one of the most popular open-source libraries on GitHub and has paved the way for the fully-fledged startup known as MUI (founded in 2019), which now boasts an ever-expanding ecosystem of React UI products.
We're a company of 31+ people as of late 2023, and we're growing.

## The products

> MUI is best known for our flagship product, Material UI—but this is just one of three core component libraries we maintain.
> Base UI is our headless component library, and Pigment CSS is a zero-runtime CSS-in-JS library, that is a replacement of the current styling engine that uses emotion/styled-components under the hood.
> We also host Design Kits and pre-built Templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MUI is best known for our flagship product, Material UI—but this is just one of three core component libraries we maintain.
Base UI is our headless component library, and Pigment CSS is a zero-runtime CSS-in-JS styling engine.
We also host Design Kits and pre-built Templates.
```

I don't think we should sell Pigment early here as a "replacement to Material's (which is implied in the original) current styling engine". Also, this is part of the job ad template copy, and whenever we're past the v6/v7 cycle, this "current" part should become outdated.

## Why we're hiring

We believe CSS-in-JS is the best styling API with the best developer experience for writing CSS.
We've used it in Material UI since v1 (back then, with JSS, and currently with Emotion in v5).
However, there are key challenges we need to overcome to keep using this stack: improving performance and compatibility with React 19 features, including React Server Components.
That's why, about a year ago, we started to work on Pigment CSS!
We recently released an early alpha version, [introduced at React Conf 2024](https://mui.com/blog/introducing-pigment-css/), for which we're seeing [early positive adoption](https://npm-stat.com/charts.html?package=@stylexjs/stylex,@pigment-css/react) and [some community validation](https://x.com/JoshWComeau/status/1767224693575053692).

This is just the beginning, though.
There's so much to do to make Pigment CSS a reliable and mature option for the future of Material UI and for many developers looking for a next-generation CSS-in-JS styling engine.
We're well-positioned to make this happen, so we're looking for a talented engineer to join the team and help us get further beyond!

> ### Why this is interesting
> 
> The core components that will depend on this library are widely used, you will receive a lot of feedback on your work.
> The community has high expectations, they will push you to do better, every day.
> 
> Our products empower React developers to build awesome applications faster – we see millions of developers on MUI's docs every year, one million a month.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

I'd cut this entire part; don't think it's adding anything new when compared to the "Why we're hiring" section. That section, together with the role's key responsibilities (+ best/worse parts, if we're keeping that), should already give a pretty thorough view of "why this is interesting".

Author: Fair enough 👌

## The role

### Key responsibilities

> - **Build**. You will provide solutions for integrating the library with various bundlers and frameworks. You will build new features and improve the DX of the library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Build**. You will help Pigment CSS mature by integrating it with various bundlers and frameworks, building new features, and improving DX.
```

> - **Nurture community contributions**. You will provide guidance and direction to unlock the contributions of the community. Your time will often be way better spent doing this than fixing the problems yourself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Nurture community contributions**. You will provide guidance and direction to unlock the contributions of the community. 
```

I think we can cut this last part—kind of a weird statement. It's also always very case-by-case, when it comes to taking on an issue vs. leaving to the community.

> - **Shape the product**. You will be laser-focused on the end goal. It's not about solving technical challenges but about the problems solved for the users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Influence the product strategy.** You will be empowered to help design and shape a roadmap that solves real developer problems.
```

I'd phrase it this way. It brings clarity to me that this point is about influencing product strategy as opposed to just writing code.

> - **Keep technical debt in check**. You will make sure we can keep shipping features at a reasonable pace, align the team on "one way" of doing things and make sure engineers follow the conventions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Keep technical debt in check**. You will ensure we can keep shipping features at a reasonable pace while aligning the team on "the right way" of doing things.
```

- **Be a solver**. You will dig deep into arbitrarily complex problems and find an appropriate path forward. Some focus on a given area for long periods, others bounce from hotspot to hotspot as guided by organizational leadership.

### The best parts of this job

> - **You'll be at the cutting edge of application development** — working on one of the fastest-growing CSS-in-JS libraries on the market.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **You'll be at the cutting edge of application development** working on one of the fastest-growing CSS-in-JS libraries on the market.
```

Not sure we need the em-dash here

> - **You'll be part of an active, open, friendly community** of developers that are excited about building awesome applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **You'll be part of an active, open, friendly community** of developers who are excited about building awesome applications.
```

> - **Your role will be key to making MUI the go-to UI solution** for building applications, websites, and design systems that does not have to trade performance for a great developer experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Your role will be key to making MUI's libraries the go-to UI solutions** for building applications, websites, and design systems that do not have to trade performance for a great developer experience.
```

Same justification as the other — singular use of "MUI the go-to UI solution" sounds the same as  "Material UI the go-to UI solution".

### The worst parts of this job

- **Shifting context.**
  You will necessarily have to shift context and dive into a different feature before the current one is done.
  It may even be in an area of the codebase you're unfamiliar with or don't have a ton of understanding about.
  It's fun, rewarding work, but it can be very challenging.
- **We move quickly but don't sacrifice quality**.
  We ship early, often, and quickly. You may not be initially comfortable with the cadence with which we ship high-quality features and improvements to end-users. By doing so, we sacrifice on solving each problem 100% in exchange for fast feedback. Solving 50-70% of the issue with quality should be enough for any given iteration. Our users quickly tell us when we haven't pushed a solution far enough.

> - **MUI has a large codebase**. You may bang your head against the wall at times, and then write tests to assist future you 😌.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **MUI has large codebases**. You may bang your head against the wall at times and then write tests to assist future you.
```

"MUI has a large codebase" in singular makes me read this as "Material UI has a large codebase". I think plural here resonates more with the idea of multiple products.

  The work you will be doing is somewhat unique and idiosyncratic. You probably have not had a similar role before.
- **In open-source, you're faced with a nonstop stream of bug reports and support requests**. That means you need to develop an intuition for when to ignore something, and when to dig in further.

## Who we're looking for

> We're looking for someone with strong core JavaScript skills. More important than specific technical skills though is that you're a strong problem solver who loves to learn. Details matter to you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're looking for someone with strong core JavaScript skills. More important than specific technical skills, though, is that you're a strong problem solver who loves to learn. Details matter to you.
```

### Required

> - **Expertise in the modern JavaScript ecosystem**.
>   Pigment CSS is built on the shoulders of giants, you need to use technologies such as TypeScript, Node.js, Babel, Rust, or SWC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Expertise in the modern JavaScript ecosystem**.
  You'll use technologies such as TypeScript, Node.js, Babel, Rust, or SWC. We'd appreciate it if you've already written a Babel plugin or something similar.
```

The "shoulders of giants" part sounds cool, but I'd cut it for the sake of simplicity. Also accounting to the point above.

> - **A track record of demonstrating an eye for product and solving real-world user problems**. If you have a knack for solving problems at the root cause, shipping beautiful user interfaces and intuitive APIs, we want you on our team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **A track record of solving real-world user problems**. If you have a knack for solving problems at the root cause and shipping beautiful user interfaces with intuitive APIs, we want you on our team.
```

A bit simpler while preserving the original meaning

> - **Experience building and shipping production code in a team setting** with a passion for writing tested, performant, and high-quality code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

I'd cut this one—sounds a bit similar to the above? It tackles "track record of solving real-world user problems" (you assume they've worked on production code and in teams) and "expertise with the modern JavaScript ecosystem" (you assume that expertise means tested, performant, and high-quality code). I think we can simplify it.

- **Strong written and verbal communication skills**.

>   As part of the team, you'll interface both directly and indirectly with community members and enterprise customers, and contribute to user documentation. Clear communication is fundamental in creating intuitive and compelling resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  As part of the team, you'll interface directly and indirectly with community members and enterprise customers, as well as contribute to internal and external documentation. 
```

We can also be simpler here.

- **Ability to dive into complex problems**.
  You should be able to quickly assess, understand, and iterate upon aspects of our codebase.

> - **Ready and willing to ask and answer questions**.
>   If you're comfortable saying you're unsure, asking for help; but equally reaching out to assist others, you'll be an incredible addition to our team. We thrive because of continuous learning. First-time mistakes should be celebrated, not blamed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Willingness to ask and answer questions**.
  You're comfortable saying you're unsure and asking for help. You'll also reach out out to assist others. We thrive through continuous learning—first-time mistakes are celebrated, not blamed.
```

Polishing it up a bit

> - **Leadership skills**.
>   You will help build the community and collaborate with it.
>   You will guide and mentor contributors, steering the community in the right direction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Leadership skills**.
  You will guide and mentor contributors, steering the community in the right direction.
```

It works pretty well without the first sentence, IMO—shorter.

> - **Past work with front-end infrastructure**.
>   Perhaps you've written a Babel plugin or even worked on a problem similar to the ones Pigment CSS aims to address.
>   It would be great if you could address this in your cover letter!

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

I'd remove this one and look to include this bit on the "experience with modern JavaScript" part. I'll add a comment there.

### Nice to have (but not required)

> - **You've maintained an active repository before**.
>   Maybe you've helped maintain a popular open-source repository, or perhaps you've worked on internal repositories that saw contributions from multiple teams.
>   Previous experience with highly active repository workflows is a definite plus for this role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **You've maintained an active repository before**, regardless of whether it was open-source or private, that saw contributions from multiple teams.
```

Simpler as well.

> - **You have contributed code to a CSS-in-JS library**. A history of contributing to a CSS-in-JS library is a plus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **You've contributed to a CSS-in-JS library** in the past.
```

Cutting the "CSS-in-JS library" repetition. No need to say it's a plus here, too; it's already said in the "nice to have" title—can be simpler.

# Staff Engineer — Pigment CSS

> <p class="description">Research, build, document, and ship high-quality zero-runtime CSS-in-JS library with a focus on performance and great developer experience.</p>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<p class="description">Research, build, document, and help ship a next-gen zero-runtime CSS-in-JS library with a focus on performance and great developer experience.</p>
```
